[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: So
I'm now going to open an exercise
four fixed version on this side and
I'm going to open up exercise 6.
And again, show you the side by
side way of dealing with ex6.
So, we still have our same get
file the way we did with ex5.
But how are we going to
handle this map reduce thing.
Well, I'm gonna start
with a list of "file1",
"file two", "file three", okay?
Now I'm still going to do a .map call and
call .map, this is the array map.
Plain old normal array pass it getFile.
And the end of that I now
have an array of sequences.
Does everybody catch that it's
not an array of Promises anymore.
It's an array of async sequences.
And I want to turn those sequences
into something that I can
chain into a sequence.
So I could do a .reduce call here and
take the exact same approach of
chaining things in with .seq and .val.
So I could do exactly the same
thing I did in EX-4 and
it would work exactly the same way.
But there's an even easier way of doing
it by recognizing the fact that one of
the virtues again of a Promise library
giving you some extra sugar if you will.
One of the sugars is that the asynquence
methods at least some of the methods.
Many of the methods will
receive multiple items
as if you called the thing multiple times.
So with .seq I can pass
multiple sequences into it and
I don't have to call seq once for
each sequence.
I can pass multiple sequences into it.
So if I have this set of sequences here.
I could just pass them
directly into a .seq call.
Now unfortunately, it's not as simple as
that, because seq doesn't take a raise,
cuz there's no way to know whether or
not you want that array to be a value or
whether you want it to be
an array of sequences.
So it's not polymorphic in that sense but
with the ES6 all we need is the dot
dot dot to spread out in array.
So we are spreading out
an array of sequences.
>> Kyle: But
there's one last little detail here,
which is we're not sequencing
in those outputs yet are we?
So we could sequence in the outputs into
these individual sequences by recognizing
that another transformation needs
to occur as I need to take each
single step sequence and
turn it into a two step sequence.
A sequence of waiting for the event,
waiting for the text and printing it.
So I'm gonna do another .map call,
not to reduce but
another .map call which takes a sequence.
I'll call it sq just for
shortness and clarity.
It takes a sequence and
needs to do a transformation on it, right?
What's our transformation?
>> Kyle: That would be a transformation.
That will push that sequence
into the bigger sequence and
push it into the bigger sequence and
push it into the bigger sequence.
To make that further clear we're
going to pass these as a set of functions
in this isn't strictly necessary but
now this is a set of functions
being pushed into the seq so
that they will be called at
the appropriate time, okay?
So this would they should work without
the function wrapper here but just to make
it clear we can turn this into a array
of functions that produce a sequence.
That's what sequenced
traditionally expects.
Or we can just simply turn it
into an array of sequences.
>> Kyle: And what's gonna happen if,
actually, so let me back up.
So what's gonna happen if we turn this
into an array of independent sequences
is that we might get file2
printed before file1 because
these are still independent sequences.
The way we make them dependent is to
defer with the function wrappers and
that was the purpose for
the function, okay?
We've turned an array of strings
into an array of sequences and
then we turn an array of
sequences into an array of
functions that will
return those sequences.
>> Speaker 2: My question is can we not
implement that previous one with the same
map and defer it when we print the output.
>> Kyle: The problem with Promises,
the reason why that technique doesn't work
over here with Promises, is that they
can't accept multiple functions.
Asynquence can accept multiple functions
and it knows what to do with it.
But you can't do that over here, so
you actually have to manually chain them
together which is why we
need to the reduce call.
Reduce may work better for
your brain and if so that's great,
you can do that with asynquence.
But I'm just trying to show you that
we can get rid of the complexity
of reduce and simply do two map calls.
Taking advantage of the fact that we can
access receive an array of functions.
Did I lose everybody?
Can I get a thumbs up if it's making
at least half sense, okay, right.
I get that there's a little
bit of complexity here.
Nothing that I'm presenting to you should
be like immediately you're a master on it.
This is all presenting you stuff that it's
giving you the inspiration to go dig and
learn these things and practice them.
There's no substitute for
the practice to get to the point
where the stuff is comfortable, okay?
>> Kyle: All right, so
that's exercise five and
six our next topic of discussion.
My last point to make.
If you want to know more about asynquence,
more than even the documentation, I wrote
two or three part blog series on it and
you can read more about asynquence and
its design principles and
ways to think about using it.
So if you're interested in
learning more be my guest.
Feel free to read about them.
Over the break, there were several
questions where it felt like I might have
created a little bit of confusion at the
end of our discussion on ex6, exercise 6.
So I wanted to circle back to that and
make sure I was a little bit clear.
That way,
we didn't leave the confusion around it.
At the outset, let me say that everything
that we're about to discuss is really
more about JavaScript and
much less about asynquence.
So this isn't some
complexity about asynquence.
It's just understanding the mechanisms
that are are happening in JavaScript.
But what I've done is I've sketched out
what we were originally talking about,
which was over here on the right,
you can see that I'm returning directly
the sequence with the val
output put onto it.
So any time you're having trouble
picturing or understanding or
sussing out what a map or map and
reduce or whatever it is doing.
I encourage you to unroll that in
your mind at least unroll a few
steps of it in your mind even
type it out that way you have
a clearer picture of what's happening.
[COUGH] So what I've done is
do that over here on the left.
I've unrolled what was happening over
there on the right when we directly
returned the sequence and val output.
You notice that I start out
with an array of strings.
This map call changes it
into an array of sequences.
This map call changes it into
an array of other sequences.
Sequences which have .val and output but
there are still three independent
sequences, which means they're
going to be able to independently proceed
and independence is not what we want here.
We're trying to create dependence between
them so that they sequence correctly.
So if we visualize what's
happening over here on the left,
you can see that on it's like passing
in three independent sequences.
So each one of those is able to go to
its output as soon as it finishes,
which means we're not coordinating
the s1 output to happen before
the s2 output before the s3 output.
That's really all JavaScript,
that's got nothing to do with asynquence.
It's just that these things these three
things are independent right now.
And we want them to be dependent.
Also to point out this dot, dot, dot.
Its happening after we've produced
an array so I went ahead and
put in the wrapping parentheses here
to make it clear that dot dot dot
being used here is spreading out an array.
So we started out with an array and
we spread it out as a series
of actual arguments.
If the .seq method took an array.
Then everything that we did over here
would be exactly the same except we'd take
out the...
Sequence doesn't take an array because
there's no way polymorphically to know
whether or not you intend that to
be a single value passed through or
whether you intend it to be an array
of values to be interpreted.
So because of that I said earlier,
I don't like polymorphism I don't like
confusing conventional polymorphism.
So it's just not polymorphic in that way.
Meaning you can't pass on an array.
You have to pass them in separately.
The old school way as you'll see in
the solution files to use that apply.
I'm trying to help you understand how
ES6 helps makes these things clear.
So that's a spreading out an array and
it should be clear now that,
that's why this is not sufficient,
cuz these are three independent sequences
that will output independently,
and that's not what we want.
So if we go back to where we did end up,
which is that we're returning a function
that returns those sequences.
Then the equivalent of what's
happening when we unroll it
is that there are three independent
functions being passed in.
So what we've done is start with
an array of strings produce an array of
sequences and now we're mapping
that to an array of functions.
And then we of course dot dot dot spread
out the array of functions as individual
function arguments.
So I have a function here,
a function here, and a function here.
Now we do need to understand something
specific about how asynquence works.
It shouldn't be confusing but it's
something we should call out specifically.
And that is that most of the methods
that take one or more functions.
If you pass two or three functions like
we're passing three functions here.
The API will run the first function and
then go on to the second function only
after the first one finished and so forth.
So does everything serially.
So these three functions even though
they're being passed into the same
sequence method are still going to run
this one entirely to its completion,
which means wait for
that sequence to finish.
And then, run this function and
run that sequence entirely to completion.
And then, this function and
that sequence entirely to completion.
So that is the way to unroll what we've
produced over here on the right-hand side,
is that we've created
a list of functions and
spread those functions
out to the sequence call.
And this, if that's confusing passing
multiple functions into .seq,
you can also alternatively visualize
that as three separate .seq calls.
>> Kyle: So
hopefully that makes it clearer.
But each one of those is going
to happen in sequence, serially.
Hopefully, that cleared up some of the
confusion that we might have wrought by
trying to go through quickly
the throwaway parts of the solution for
exercise six, and it makes it more
clear why we ended up over here.
And again just to refrain.
The vast majority of that is understanding
using JavaScript mechanisms.
It has very,
very little to do with asynquence itself.
The only part that's asynquence specific
is that it expects individual values and
it will do them serially.